In the previous video, we already
learn about basic command in cisco.
Next in this video, I will show you
that command in cisco can be shortened.
For example, the command enable can
be shortened to en like this. So
we don’t need to type the complete command.
Okay let’s just try it. Let’s open the
router. Here let’s back to the user mode.
And then type en. Type the password,
and okay here we can see that we have
successfully go to privilege mode.
Let’s try to exit again. May be some
of you have a question, can I shortened
the enable command become just e? Let’s try it.
Okay here we get an error ambiguous command.
Now let’s try e and then question mark.
Here we can see that there is 2 command
that started by e, which is enable and exit.
This is why we get an error ambiguous command.
But if we type en and question mark, here we
can see that the possible command is only enable.
So we can shortened the enable command become en.
Next let’s try to shortened configure terminal.
Here I type co and then question mark.
Here we can see that we still have more than 1
possible command, which is 3 command. Now let’s
try con and then question mark. Here we have 2
possible command, Next let’s try conf and then
question mark. Here we can see that now we only
have 1 possible command, which is configure.
Space, and then here I type t and question
mark. Here the only command that started by
t is only terminal. Okay so this is the
shortened command of configure terminal.
Let’s enter it. Okay here we can see that we are
successful to enter global configuration mode.
Now let’s try to exit from global configuration
mode. Let’s type e and then question mark.
Okay here we can see many command that started
with e. let’s try ex and then question mark.
Okay here we just have one command, which
is exit, so this is enough. Let’s enter it.
Next, let’s try show running-config.
Let’s type sh and then question mark.
Okay here we only have one command. And then let’s
try r and then question mark. Okay here we also
have only one command, which is running-config,
so, sh space r is enough for show running-config.
Okay now you are know about shortened command
in cisco. But one thing that you need to know
is that command in the cisco packet tracer is
much less than in the real device. So may be
some shortened command in cisco packet tracer
is work, but in the real device is not work.
Here is some command shortened that I
usually use. For enable the command is en,
exit is ex, configure terminal is conf
t, and show running-config is show run.
Okay that is some shortened command that
I usually use. Next, we are going to
learn about autocomplete. So, beside shortened
command, we also can use autocomplete in cisco.
Here let’s type sh and then tab. So
the command will be autocomplete become
show like this. And then let’s
type run and then tab again.
Okay here the command is autocomplete
become show running-config.
Okay that’s some feature of cisco that we can
use to speed up the configuration process.
The first one is shortened command,
and the second is autocomplete.
Okay I think enough for this video. Thankyou
for watching and see you on the next video!